So what exactly is Angular?
AngularJS is a leading framework for building
javascript heavy single page based web applications.
Single page apps or SPA’s load the entire
content of a site within a single page.
This single page is usually an index.html
file.
This means that once the main page is loaded,
clicking on links will not reload the entire
page but simply update sections within the
page itself.
USAToday.com is a great example of this technology
being used in modern websites.
The popularity of SPA-based web apps has taken
off based on the fact that they allow us to
deliver rich, dynamic and fast loading content
that mimics that of a desktop applications.
One big difference between Angular based sites
and traditional ones is that Angular expects
the browser to build the page.
In this diagram, the server sends to the browser
all the data to build a page – which includes
the HTML, CSS and Javascript files, and then
browser then does the work of building the
final template that’s displayed in a web
page.
Now this may seem like a lot of work for the
browser but it actually results in much faster
load times.
When compared to more traditional applications
that use PHP or Java, the server is responsible
for all the heavy lifting.
This includes accepting requests, fetching
the data, along with building the final page.
Relying exclusively on the server in this
way may result in higher usage fees along
with slower load times when sites see a heavy
increase in traffic.
In addition to the increases in speed and
performance, Angular allows us to write much
more succinct code then using plain javascript.
We’re able to add if conditions, loops and
local variables directly within our templates.
We’re also able to track, process and display
changes from the user using the magic of data-binding.
Angular was developed with 3 key concepts
in mind.
Make it modular, make it testable and make
it maintainable.
Angular 1 gave us modules to effectively separate
out our code for testing and maintenance.
Angular 2 brings us components an even better
way of seperating out our logic
Angular version 1 was first published in 2009
and became a massive success with millions
of developers worldwide adopting and using
the framework.
Angular version 2 introduces sweeping changes
along with a complete code rewrite.
Which begs the question, why the need for
such a huge shift with a framework so popular
and universally loved?
We’ll answer that question in the next lecture.